There's no meaning to any of this. I
wanted to find the most meaningless
thing that I could f come to and join
and here I am. This is a piece called
Hooray, We're All Broken. It represents
all the different modes of life and all
the different people and all the
different things we go through. But it's
[music] important to remember,
especially for me, I would never show up
anywhere if I didn't [music] understand
that everyone was broken in some way.
Yeah. What am I is the central question.
You know, why am I here? What am I? You
know,
>> don't get me wrong, you know, Jim Carrey
is a great character and I was lucky to
get the part,
uh,
but I don't think of that as me anymore.
It showed me that there were characters
[music] being played everywhere. As an
actor, you play characters and then if
you go deep enough into those
characters, you realize that your own
[music] characters pretty thin to begin
with, you know, and a lot of a lot of
the characters I've done so far have
been about duality, about what you show
the world and what you really are. And
[music] uh so I've always been trying to
reconcile the two.
>> I was two people my whole life. I
[music] was in the living room
entertaining people being a monkey,
you know, doing my thing for the company
and and trying to relieve my mother who
was suffering. She had uh rheumatoid
arthritis and flabitis and everything
[music]
everything under the sun that was
nagging at her and she was depressed
and I wanted her to be free. I am at the
top of the mountain and I was and I the
only the only one I hadn't freed was
myself and that's when my search for
identity deepened. I wondered who I'd be
without my fame. Who would I be if I
said things that people didn't want to
hear or if I defied their expectations
of me? I found [music] myself uh
subjugating Jim Carrey for Andy Kaufman
and Tony Clifton [music] and then at the
end of it looking for Jim Carrey again
and having trouble finding him, you
know, and then you suddenly have this
separation and go [music] who's Jim
Carrey? Oh, he doesn't exist. Actually,
I don't exist. They're all characters
[music]
that I've played, including Jim Carrey,
including Joel Barish, including any of
those things. They're all characters.
No, I'm not always happy. That's for
[music] sure. Happy is the weather and
uh but I do
>> live in a sunny place.
>> Yeah.
>> Just have an opportunity to let the
flowers grow. [music] But
>> you know, depression only happens when
you don't accept what is and and uh when
you're playing a character, you know, in
[music] life. So when I tried to go back
and play Jim Carrey, I got depressed
>> and uh [music] and now I don't try to do
that anymore.
>> To find real peace, you have to let the
armor go. Your need [music] for
acceptance can make you invisible in
this world. Don't let anything stand in
the way of the light that shines through
this form. [music] Risk being seen in
all of your glory. My father was not
only the funniest man in the room, but
he was a fantastic [music] saxophone
player. And before I was born, he had an
orchestra in Toronto. But, you know, in
order to be something special, you had
to [music]
leave Canada and come down to the States
and prove yourself in the States. He was
a little bit afraid of that transition
and and also [music] he had a family to
take care of. So, he became an
accountant. And uh as time wore on,
[music] it wore him down and he got a
little bit bitter, especially when he
lost his job when he was 51.
>> Well, you know, when my father lost his
job, I was pissed. You know, it was like
one of those things, my dad, how dare
the universe. The
>> thing was he wasn't happy. he would come
home and just then [music] that damn guy
man I tell you one of these days I'm
going to you know
>> right so so I don't know what happened
uh that really [music] broke him not
only was he compromising to raise a
family but when you compromise and
[music] you fail it really hurts it
hurts even more than failing at what you
love and a lot of people don't know this
but uh but when I was about 14 or
[music] 15 my father lost his job and I
actually became homeless for quite some
time. Uh, of course I grew up in Canada,
so I thought we had just gone camping.
You know,
>> all you know is you ended up living in a
car.
>> Exactly. [music] For a while, we pitched
a tent on my sister's lawn really in the
country. Uh, and then for a while we
went to campsites [music] uh around, you
know, Ontario. Uh, and uh, you know,
we'd use the facilities there. And, uh,
>> my father could have been a great
comedian, but he didn't believe that
that was possible for him. And so, he
made a conservative choice. [music]
Instead, he got a safe job as an
accountant. And when I was 12 years old,
he was let go from that safe job and our
family had to do whatever we could to
survive. I learned many great lessons
from my father, not the least of which
was that you can fail at what you don't
want. So, you might as well take a
chance on doing what you love. It's like
my old man didn't get to see everything,
but he saw it happen. And it's happened
for him as much as it [music] did for
me. I would visualize things coming to
me that I wanted or whatever. I [music]
had nothing at that time. So, it was
like it but it just made me feel better.
I would drive home and think, well, I do
have these things and they're out there.
I just don't have a hold of them yet,
but they're out there.
>> So, your dad was the janitor, your mom
was the janitor,
>> janitors and security guards/ security
guards. And every day, my father would
come to to relieve me from my 8-hour
shift and there would be a new hole in
the wall in the office
>> shaped like my fist. I'd have some
trumped up excuse. the the buffer. It
just it flew out of my head.
>> But you would punch the walls. You were
so
>> Oh, yeah. Man, the factory workers used
to uh mess with my head by like taking,
you know, uh defecating in [music] the
sink or uh you know,
>> you had to clean it all, man.
>> I had to do the whole thing. But the
whole time I was singing and I was
dreaming.
>> I really want to speak to the fact that
I've had some challenges in the last
couple of years myself. Ultimately, I
believe that suffering leads to
salvation. We have to somehow accept and
not deny but feel our suffering and feel
our losses.
>> Thought is responsible for if not all
most of the suffering we experience.
[music]
It does allow you to separate who you
truly are and what's real from the
stories that run through your head. You
[music] have given them them the ability
to walk behind the mind's elaborate set
decoration and to see that there's a
huge difference between a dog that is
going to eat you in your mind and an
actual dog that is going to eat you. I
believe that peace lies beyond
personality, beyond invention and
disguise, beyond the red S that you wear
on your chest that makes bullets bounce
off. I believe that it's deeper than
that. I believe we're a field of energy
dancing for itself. The hardest part
about show business [music] is acting
off camera because there are a lot of
times when you have to act off camera.
You know, you're not you can't always be
your authentic self-c which feels
[music] the best really.
>> But it's when you're not being yourself
is when is when it becomes tough. You
know, it's like so I have I have a new
rule in my life and that is I I only act
in the [music] movies.
>> It's what's happening right now inside
everybody is they're going who am I? And
they're depressed. you know, a lot of
people because they're trying to hold up
an image in the world and that's what
depression is. You know, people go like,
"Oh, Jim's been depressed and stuff."
Well, yeah, I was depressed when I was
trying to uh be the Wizard of Oz instead
of the sweaty guy behind the curtain. Uh
but now I know that Oz is a character,
you know, and uh and you know, I think
everybody deals with that. Everybody
walks around and they go like, "Why am I
depressed?" Well, it's because you're
trying to be something for the world,
you know, and as soon as you, you know,
let that go. Better things happen
because they're just happening. But it's
not uh, [music] you know, now it's just
sadness, you know. Sadness comes,
happiness comes. It's weather that flies
by in the sky. It doesn't sit on you
long enough to drown you. People talk
about depression all the time. The
difference [music] between depression
and sadness, sadness is just, you know,
from happen stance. whatever happened or
[music] didn't happen for you, grief or
whatever it is. And depression is your
body saying, [music] "Fuck you. I don't
want to be this character anymore. I
don't want to hold up this avatar that
you've created in the world. It's
[clears throat] too much for me." So, a
friend of mine who's a spiritual teacher
has a really good take. His name is Jeff
Foster, and his take on it is that they
should change depressed as deep rest.
[music]
>> Deep rest. Your body needs to be
depressed. It needs deep rest [music]
from the character that you've been
trying to play,
>> right?
>> You know, the the [music] uh great and
powerful Oz.
>> I'm the great and powerful Oz. How dare
you come near me?
>> You know, kind of thing. And you're just
the sweaty guy behind the curtain going.
>> I used to be a guy who was experiencing
the world and now I feel like the world
and the universe [music] experiencing a
guy. I I'm just excited
really about [music] always changing,
about crossing back and forth across the
river and throwing the [music] hounds
off the trail. I I love that.
>> Just when we think Just when we think
we've got you, we know you. You're off
on another route.
>> Absolutely. And if I feel like I've been
figured out, boy, look out. I will
become something completely different.
[music] You know, maybe I might might
not want to become something completely
different, but express something
completely different. I always felt like
if the world is going crazy, I'll be
[music] calm. And if uh and if they're
calm, I'll be the one hanging off the
chandelier.
>> We are babysat by the television. We're
taught how to think by the television.
That's the dangerous time thing about
what's going on right now. [music]
There's an there are there are
generations growing up right now who are
learning to lie. [music] That lying is
okay. That that this uh say fake news
that you're supposed to hate half the
country, you know. And if if if anything
if anything we've got to get back to a
place where we realize that a vote is
not who you are. Now fear is going to be
a player in your life. You get to decide
how much. You can spend your whole life
imagining ghosts worrying about the
pathway to the future. But all there
will ever be is what's happening here
[music]
and the decisions we make in this moment
which are based in either love or fear.
So many of us choose our path out of
fear, disguised as practicality. What we
really want seems impossibly out of
reach and ridiculous to expect. So, we
never dare to ask the universe for it.
I'm saying [music]
I'm the proof that you can ask the
universe for it.